# CarShare
#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Description:
CarShare is a web-based application using JavaScript, Python and Sqlite3. I walk you slowly through it by starting off with the html pages.

### Frontend:
Starting of with layout.html you'll find the layout I used for all my html pages. There is a distinction between the login and register page and the other pages since you're not meant to acces some things from the login and register page. It shows how I used Bootstrap's navbar with some edits and changes made to it. The login page shows 2 input containers and a submit button, below that it is joined by a carousel of 3 pictures, swiping automatically through Bootstrap's help. The register page is quiet similar to the login page but contains a couple more input containers, also it contains some JavaScript to show and hide text explaining the joining/creating group process. The index page is the page with the most going on. By using bootstrap grid, it is divided into halves showing the calendar and calendar-update-forms on the left side and the following things on the right-side. Through a select option you're able to choose any of existing cars within your group and change its kilometercount, also you can add or remove already existing cars from your group. Through JavaScript I created all the info except for the reservations info for into the calendar. Getting the correct month for the correct corresponding days and the correct weekday's, then adding that info into the table headers and giving them the appropiate tag so i can locate the right location for the reservations later on. At last you'll find the last bit of JavaScript code recieving a list of dictionaries from my backend code and then placing the reservations into the calendar accordingly. The profile page is a simply page with three input containers and a submit button, through this form you can change your username or password. The history page shows a table which also uses a list of dictionaries from my backend code. It accesses this data through Jinja syntax and inputs it into the table to show recent changes made to the kilometercount. Last but not least is the apology page, this page is called upon when wrong input has been given by the user, it shows a picture with text edited ontop of it from memegen.

#### CSS:
In the static folder you'll find a favicon folder containing a small picture of a car I used for in my Web-Title, also you'll find the styles.css folder. In this file I've given all my classes the according stylistic features i wanted to add.

### Backend:
For my backend I created to files: app.py and helpers.py. In helpers.py I defined 2 functions, The login decorated function (used to make sure users can only acces specific pages while being loged in) and the apology function (used to send users to the apology html page when giving incorrect input), which I imported into my main app.py file.
In app.py I start of important all necessary functions or complete libraries to use in the following code, followed by all the configuring lines to start everything off. After that all the code is divided into 6 divisions which all explain one by one. The login part starts of forgetting any user from before so you don't get someone having mulitple sessions which would raise errors. It then checks whether the method is get or post, if post it checks for errors or incorrect user-input and if succesful redirecting the person to the index page and giving them a session-id if unsuccesful it will return the apology functions with a description of the problem. If the method is get it will return the login page. The register part checks whether the method is get or post, if get it will return the register page. If the method is post it will check for errors or incorrect user-input, if succesful it will generate a corresponding hash for the user's password and store all of the user's data in the database after which it will be redirected to the index page by calling the login function. The logout part simply forgets any user_id by clearing the session upon it will be redirected to the index page which will sent it back to the login form since no one is logged in anymore.